Release notes for Builds 1.2 (#85324)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ob-release-notes-1-2.adoc

[id="ob-release-notes-1-2_{context}"]
= Release notes for {builds-shortname} General Availability 1.2

> {builds-shortname} General Availability (GA) 1.2 is now available on {ocp-product-title} 4.17.

Reviewer: Shouldn't we indicate this is available on all supported versions of OpenShift?

```suggestion
{builds-shortname} General Availability (GA) 1.2 is now available on {ocp-product-title} 4.12-4.17.
```

Author: That would be definitely better :+1: I will add that change.

Author: I will unify it with other outer loop by saying "4.12 and later versions"

[id="new-features-1-2_{context}"]
== New features

The following section highlights what is new in {builds-shortname} 1.2.

[id="builds-new-features-1-1_{context}"]
=== {builds-shortname}

> * With this update, you can use the {builds-title} on the {ocp-product-title} cluster that runs on ARM, IBM Power, and IBM Z worker hardware. The components to build images with Shipwright and Shared Resource CSI Driver are available.

Reviewer: Indicate this is **Technology Preview**?

```suggestion

* Technology Preview: With this update, you can use the {builds-title} on the {ocp-product-title} cluster that runs on ARM, IBM Power, and IBM Z worker hardware. The components to build images with Shipwright and Shared Resource CSI Driver are available.
```

Author: Yes, if it is a tech preview, it should definitely be indicated :+1:

* With this update, you can deploy {builds-shortname} on the clusters that are configured to run behind a network proxy.

* With this update, you can deploy {builds-shortname} on the clusters that run in a disconnected network environment.

> * With this update, you can use the `buildah` and `source-to-image` build strategies to mount a Red{nbsp}Hat subscription entitlement key from any supported volume source. This is useful when you need builds to install Red{nbsp}Hat subscription content by using `yum` or `dnf` commands.

Reviewer: Issue with `{nbsp}`?

```suggestion
* With this update, you can use the `buildah` and `source-to-image` build strategies to mount a Red Hat subscription entitlement key from any supported volume source. This is useful when you need builds to install Red Hat subscription content by using `yum` or `dnf` commands.
```

| Operating system | Architecture
| Linux  | amd64
| Windows | amd64
| Darwin | amd64 (macOS Intel)
|===

[id="fixed-issues-1-2_{context}"]
== Fixed issues

The following section highlights fixed issues in {builds-shortname} 1.2.

* Before this update, the Shared Resource CSI Driver was unable to mount `SharedSecret` and `SharedConfigMap` resources due to missing OpenShift RBAC permissions. With this update, the global permissions are granted to the Shared Resources CSI driver. Now, the Shared Resource CSI Driver can access `SharedSecret` and `SharedConfigMap` resources and perform the required permission checks without any additional action from the cluster administrators.

[id="known-issues-1-2_{context}"]
== Known issues

The following section highlights known issues in {builds-shortname} 1.2.

* The default build strategies fail on clusters with ARM, IBM Power, or IBM Z worker node CPU architectures. 
+
As a workaround, perform the following steps:

.. Download the following multi variant of the default `ClusterBuildStrategy` resources to your cluster:
** `buildah-multi`: link:https://issues.redhat.com/secure/attachment/13306657/13306657_buildah-multi.yaml[buildah-multi.yaml]

> ** `source-to-image-multi`: link:https://issues.redhat.com/secure/attachment/13306658/13306658_source_to_image_multi.yaml[source_to_image_multi.yaml]

Reviewer 2: The links are correct and publicly accessible, but please check if it is the preferred way to provide the files. The docs team will have a guideline for this.

Author: Hello, I am not aware of any rules regarding this. i will run this through peer review and see their opinion. If they do not know, I will find the answer before merging. Thanks!

Reviewer 3: I am OK with the links if the downloaded files have been tested and passed by QE.

Reviewer 3: Is _multi variant_ a known term? I am not seeing too much relevant by using web searches. There are some uses of multi-variant as an adjective (multi-variant testing, for example).

Author: Sorry I missed your comments! Not sure about how well the term is known, I will keep it for not to not postpone the release,but I will add the internal website note, thanks!

.. Run the following command to update your `Build` resource to use the corresponding build strategy:
+
.Buildah
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f buildah-multi.yaml
----
+

> .S2i

Reviewer: Use full name?

```suggestion
.Source-to-image
```

Author: Yes, I can change that, no problem!

[id="ob-release-notes-1-2_{context}"]
= Release notes for {builds-shortname} General Availability 1.2

{builds-shortname} General Availability (GA) 1.2 is now available on {ocp-product-title} 4.12 and later versions.

[id="new-features-1-2_{context}"]
== New features

The following section highlights what is new in {builds-shortname} 1.2.

[id="builds-new-features-1-1_{context}"]
=== {builds-shortname}

> * With this update, you can use the {builds-title} on the {ocp-product-title} cluster that runs on ARM, IBM Power, and IBM Z worker hardware. The components to build images with Shipwright and Shared Resource CSI Driver are available.

Reviewer 3: _worker hardware_ is an odd term to me. 

```suggestion
* With this update, you can use the {builds-title} on an {ocp-product-title} cluster that runs on the ARM, IBM Power, or IBM Z platforms. The components to build images with Shipwright and Shared Resource CSI Driver are available.
```

:FeatureName: {builds-shortname}} for ARM, IBM Power, and IBM Z clusters
+
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]
:!FeatureName:

* With this update, you can deploy {builds-shortname} on the clusters that are configured to run behind a network proxy.

* With this update, you can deploy {builds-shortname} on the clusters that run in a disconnected network environment.

* With this update, you can use the `buildah` and `source-to-image` build strategies to mount a Red{nbsp}Hat subscription entitlement key from any supported volume source. This is useful when you need builds to install Red{nbsp}Hat subscription content by using `yum` or `dnf` commands.

* With this update, you can create a Shipwright `Build` object by using the `buildah` or `source-to-image` build strategies from the examples provided in the *Developer* perspective of the {ocp-product-title} web console. You can change the parameters in these examples to create custom `Build` objects.

> * With this update, you can download the binaries for `shp` CLI from the *Developer* perspective of the {ocp-product-title} web console. It is available for the following operating systems and architectures:
> 
> [options="header"]
> |===
> | Operating system | Architecture
> | Linux  | amd64
> | Windows | amd64
> | Darwin | amd64 (macOS Intel)
> |===

Reviewer 3: Add a `+` before the table to better align with the bullet.
```suggestion
* With this update, you can download the binaries for `shp` CLI from the *Developer* perspective of the {ocp-product-title} web console. It is available for the following operating systems and architectures:
+
[options="header"]
|===
| Operating system | Architecture
| Linux  | amd64
| Windows | amd64
| Darwin | amd64 (macOS Intel)
|===
```

The following section highlights fixed issues in {builds-shortname} 1.2.

* Before this update, the Shared Resource CSI Driver was unable to mount `SharedSecret` and `SharedConfigMap` resources due to missing OpenShift RBAC permissions. With this update, the global permissions are granted to the Shared Resources CSI driver. Now, the Shared Resource CSI Driver can access `SharedSecret` and `SharedConfigMap` resources and perform the required permission checks without any additional action from the cluster administrators.

[id="known-issues-1-2_{context}"]
== Known issues

The following section highlights known issues in {builds-shortname} 1.2.

* The default build strategies fail on clusters with ARM, IBM Power, or IBM Z worker node CPU architectures. 
+
As a workaround, perform the following steps:

.. Download the following multi variant of the default `ClusterBuildStrategy` resources to your cluster:
** `buildah-multi`: link:https://issues.redhat.com/secure/attachment/13306657/13306657_buildah-multi.yaml[buildah-multi.yaml]
** `source-to-image-multi`: link:https://issues.redhat.com/secure/attachment/13306658/13306658_source_to_image_multi.yaml[source_to_image_multi.yaml]

> .. Run the following command to update your `Build` resource to use the corresponding build strategy:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. Run one of the following commands to update your `Build` resource to use the corresponding build strategy:
````

Reviewer 3: Or better, this structure is far more prevalent in the OCP docs:

```suggestion
.. Update your `Build` resource to use the corresponding build strategy by running one of the following commands:
```
